So, I just wanted you to see
a much more complicated query.
Try to remember what this one is.
This might be one of the answers
to one of the previous ones.
Yeah, this is the movies with
the most categories I think, it is.
So, let's do an explain analyze on this,
because this is obviously
going to do a lot more.
So you can see here it's cost is 53,000.
Keep in mind that the one that we
did in the previous one was what?
About 5000, right?
So this is 10 times slower,
as opposed to work like our index lookup,
which was, well, like 0.75 or
something like that?
No, it's 8.44, so
this is magnitudes slower.
But here you can see that the sort
cost this, most of the sort's cost was
in its set up,
it had to sort 183,000 rows, that's a lot.
It sorted by the count,
it did a heapsort, I don't know
anything about sorts so
I don't know how it chooses that.
Grouping, it does the grouping by m.id.
Did a merge join, did a merge
condition on this, you can see here we
did hit an Index Scan here using
the movies_pkey, that's cool.
Index Only Scan,
another good thing to see.
You had some, anyway,
Planning Time, Execution status,
that's always something
interesting to look at as well.
So let's talk just a moment
about the postgres planner.
One of the reasons I
chose this database for
us to use in the course of this class
is there's a lot of rows on it.
Which means that we're actually
going to hit some occasions where,
indexes are gonna be really useful.
The postgres planner is really smart and
usually smarter than you.
There are times is like you're
explain analyzing some query and
you have some index that you put
in there and created for it.
And postgres's plan is like no,
I'm not gonna use that.
I'm still gonna use a sequential scan.
And it is usually right, because it'll
look at how many rows it has to filter.
It'll look at how many
rows are on the table.
It'll look at all sorts of other variables
that you and I are not looking at.
And usually, it will select the correct
thing that will be the fastest.
So that's the point of the postgres
planner, is to look at all the tools that
it has to work with, and then choose
the correct one to do your query.
So, in other words, if you're working
on a really little table with.
Like if we were trying to do
indexes on the recipes table,
it will almost never use our indexes
because it's such a small table.
There's like 300 total
things in that table.
Postgres can just burn through that
really quickly with sequential scan, so
it would just use sequential scan and
everything.
Cuz again remember, the setup for
indexes is not free.
Which means, frequently the cost
of setting up to use an index,
will exceed the cost of
doing a sequential scan.
So, it'll elect to not use your index,
does that make sense?
So don't get frustrated if
it's not using an index,
that's my communication to you is
frequently the planner is a lot smarter
than you are when it comes
to query performance.
So, the reason why I show you
this big complicated thing,
let's say that you were
running this a lot.
For whatever reason, this was a really
important query to your application.
You could run explain analyze on this and
say, well, this is kind of expensive,
I don't like how expensive this is.
You can go in piece by piece and
figure out, where the slow parts are.
And then you can try and optimize
those parts of the query for indexes.
Cuz I can't, this is too complicated
of a query, just say index this query,
that's doesn't make any sense.
You have to index parts of the query.
So, if I was looking at this, and
this was a really important thing to me,
like this part, right.
This has no cost, so you would
totally ignore this part of the query,
you would not try to optimize this.
This one right here, you would totally
ignore this, because that's really fast.
You start getting to these ones, okay,
these are things where I can look at
them and say,
there are games to be made here, possible.
So you look for these parts that
have big numbers and you're, okay,
I'm gonna try and see if I can figure
out how to write indexes for this.
But just like general programming
practice, you don't wanna go and try and
optimize everything from the get go.
Generally you kind of wanna have
a problem before you solve a problem.
Cuz, if you're trying to solve
problems before you have them,
you almost always solve the wrong problem,
right?
So that's my advice to you with indexes.
They're not free, because now the postgres
planner has to look at every time it's,
should I use this index or
not, that's not free.
And some of these indexes get huge, right?
Cuz you have to think about it.
If you have 175,000 rows,
there's 175,000 entries in a B tree.
That's not free, right?
And it has to keep that up to date,
every time that you insert a new row and
has to go insert that
then rebalance the tree.
It's additional overhead.
So, if you're creating indexes,
make sure you're using them,
if you're not using them, then drop them.